# yelp-capitalone

I created my web application in PHP and Javascript. Essentially, my idea was to give more accurate recommendations to users by implementing the IBM Watson API. The API has many functionalities, but I ended up utilizing the tone analysis feature. The tone analysis used linguistic analysis to detect emotional tones, social propensities, and writing styles in written communication. When the user first visits the website, I found the users current location by using their IP address. Then, from that location, and a keyword search for a restaurant, I received restaurants located near the user and matched the search. Before posting the nearby restaurants, the ordering of the restaurants were sorted based on customer reviews rather than the 5 star ratings that were given by the Yelp API. For each restaurants, all the available reviews were passed through the Watson API and tones such as anger and happiness were combined to calculate the order in which the restaurants would appear on the screen. Thus, giving precedence to restaurants with better emotional tones. The Yelp API only limited users to find 3 reviews from each restaurant, but if I had access to all reviews, I could receive much more accurate findings. This combined with the current 5 star rating system Yelp currently has implemented would give users better options based on how people felt about the restaurant. I also implemented the Google Maps API to display the markers of where the nearby restaurants are located. 

My project can be viewed here: https://capital-one-yelp.herokuapp.com/

The Github can be viewed here: https://github.com/lijeffrey39/yelp-capitalone
